---
title: Hector and the Search for Happiness Review
author: Em
date: 2015-07-29
---
I'm not sure if I've just been accidentally living in an invisible bubble for the past year, but I had never heard of this film when I randomly came across it on Netflix. Or maybe I hadn't heard of it because...well it really isn't anything that special. Let me explain why in a bit more detail. 

Let me set the scene for you - this film is a comedy-drama starring Simon Pegg as a middle-aged man called Hector. The beginning of the film focuses on his day to day life - he lives in London, his occupation is a psychiatrist and he lives with his successful marketer girlfriend Clara (Rosamund Pike). Unfortunately, as in many a film in recent history - Hector suffers a classic men in crisis thing and becomes fed up with the mundanities of everyday life and has a bit of a break down. After a combination of flipping out at one of his patients, and another one of his patients doing a bit of palm reading mystic Meg type stuff to him- predicting that a journey and some shizz is about to begin, he decides to take up and leave for awhile and go travelling. Clara (understandably) is pretty peed off about it as he is pretty flippant about where he is going and when hes going to return. 

So off he trots and begins his adventure. During this film, he travels to three locations - China (Shanghai and some unspecified mountain place), Africa (though for some reason we are never told  where in Africa he goes to...quite odd as Africa is a pretty big place after all) and Los Angeles. During this time, he meets and gets to know an array of characters and asks them what is happiness? Throughout the film, he writes down different ideas about what happiness is in a notebook that Clara has given him as a present for his travels. As you can see, the title of the film pretty much sums up what this film is about.

Before I start ranting about this film, which inevitably I will be soon, one thing this film deserves praise for is the cinematography - it is gorgeous. Beautiful scenic shots, clever editing, excellent use of lighting - I especially like the moments that the sun is setting and it is casting shadow over the people in shot and the objects around them, its just lovely and creates a real sense of tranquility. Peter Chelsom, the director, really did make fantastic use of the scenery for this film and its a good job he did as this film is about travelling, beauty and discovery. 
Another element I liked was the illustrations/animations that were added when he was writing in his notebook, it added another lovely visual dimension to the film- which I appreciate.

Now for a super-big negative point...this film is supposed to be a comedy but in actual fact, it never made me laugh. Dont get me wrong, the film makes a decent attempt at creating a kind of comical feeling through sound, editing and physical acting, but it just didn't make me laugh. I appreciate the efforts that have gone into this film as what has been created is a comedy that is more than just reading from a script like a lot of comedy films do these days. But, unfortunately that still doesn't stop the film from being unfunny. It stars Simon Pegg for cripes sake, he is an actual decent comedy actor, so why am I not laughing? Because this story has been done many times before. I am bored of films with men having a midlife crisis, I am bored of films where the main character has to go off travelling to discover that happiness was at home the whole time, its predictable, bland, and we as an audience deserve more. The script is nothing special either, its cheesy and predictable and the only near funny bits are when there is an attempt at a heart-warming emotional scene.

Now that I am off on a rant I need to point out that as much as I like Simon Pegg as a comedy actor, in this film, he really sucks at doing emotional bits. I was cringing like mad at the end when he was scrunching his face up and doing a gasping/sobbing voice trying to trick the audience into believing he was crying - it just didn't work. Any time he needed to do anything emotional, it just felt unnatural, I dont know what had gotten into him with this role but just any emotion didn't seem sincere and it really did suck. Rosamund Pike is wasted in this film as Hectors pushover girlfriend - go back to films where you get to shine Rosamund Pike - go back to films like Gone Girl where you can be appreciated for how good an actress you are! In this she is just a mopey muppet, waiting for Hector and whether or not hes gonna come back. 

Also, why is it that everyone in this film can speak perfect English? He travels across China and Africa, how is it that everyone he encounters speaks amazing English?! Gah! 

Anyway, to conclude, I think that this film does not present to us anything in regards to story that we have not seen before, and it presents these ideas average at best. If you want to see a film about a man having a crisis watch Up in the Air (2009), if you want to watch a film about travelling and self discovery watch Into the Wild (2007) and if you want to watch a comedy thatll make you laugh watch pretty much any other film Simon Pegg has starred in (except maybe The Worlds End (2013) which isn't that great but I wont get into that now). Dont waste your time with Hector and the Search for Happiness. Even though the cinematography is great, I just dont think it is worth spending two hours of your life watching this film to see that- go out for a nice walk instead. 
